# Welcome to My Dummy Article!

Hi there! This is the first ever dummy article that I've made using markdown. In this article I'll try to write anything that I could think of. Maybe we should start with an introduction, well my name is ***Naufal Firoos Asy Syarif***, I'm the author of this markdown article. I'm a student majoring Information System at Ahmad Dahlan University in Yogyakarta. 

I think Information System is an exciting thing to learn. It combines some sort of business concept with information technology thing. From where I've learnt in my study, I've acquired so many new things, such as what is algorithm, variables, and that such thing in programming. It's kinda fun to be honest to learn such new things. The most fun part is where I can experiment on my code, the trial and error, the processes to achieve a successful working program even though it's a simple program like a  temperature unit converter, a simple calculator, a simple ATM, and so on.

The next most interesting part of majoring in Information System is that you have a huge opportunity in this growing digital world. What I meant by that is like just see how humans are now depending on computers, almost everything that human do is doable using computer helps. The easiest example is like how humans depend on mobile phones, they're using mobile phones like they can't live without it. Another example is like how anything stores in digital database, such as journal, health records, and so on. So for us that majoring in some kind of Information Technology, Information System, and any major that focusing in technology we have such a huge opportunity if we can find and use that opportunity in our advantage. Just keep learning and learning, 'cause I think digital technology and information will keep going to advanced more and more.

